OSOE-128: Add Markdown linting. (#5)
Lombiq/NodeJs-Extensions: Lombiq.NodeJs.Extensions/Docs/Markdown.md

﻿# Scripts for MD files

Since Markdown files don't need to be built, linting isn't included in the normal workflow but a separate target launches it for any project that uses _Lombiq.NodeJs.Extensions_. You can configure its behavior with the following MSBuild property:

- `<MarkdownAnalysis>`:

>   - If unset, empty or "true", it engages the default behavior mentioned above.

Reviewer: I'm not sure, I'd keep this as opt-in. So, be able to run it for the whole solution easily like now, but don't run it by default.

Author: Why? I left it enabled by default becuase linting just the files in the project is really fast.

Reviewer: In our projects yes, but let's hope people don't keep a book or many OSS projects with documentation in their solution. Hooking into the build is invasive, and this project does multiple things, so it's not sure that everyone really wants Markdown linting too.

  - If set to "false", Markdown linting is disabled.

>   - If set to "solution", it will lint every _md_ file inside the `$(SolutionDir)`. This is useful to catch files not covered by an individual project, such as the root readme. However it can cause duplicate warnings for files in another project that uses _Lombiq.NodeJs.Extensions_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - If set to "solution", it will lint every _md_ file inside the `$(SolutionDir)`. This is useful to catch files not covered by an individual project, such as the root Readme. However, it can cause duplicate warnings for files in another project that uses `Lombiq.NodeJs.Extensions`.
```

> Alternatively, you can use the NodeJS scripts [as described for JavaScript](JavaScript.md#how-to-get-started) with these:

Reviewer 2: These are really `npm` scripts:
```suggestion
Alternatively, you can use the following `npm` scripts [as described for JavaScript](JavaScript.md#how-to-get-started):
```

﻿# Scripts for MD files

## Usage

> Since Markdown files don't need to be built, linting isn't included in the normal workflow but a separate target can launch it for any project that uses _Lombiq.NodeJs.Extensions_. You can configure its behavior with the following MSBuild property:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since Markdown files don't need to be built, linting them isn't included in the normal workflow. Instead, a separate target can launch it for any project that uses _Lombiq.NodeJs.Extensions_. You can configure its behavior with the following MSBuild property:
```

- `<NodeJsExtensionsMarkdownAnalysisMode>`:
  - If set to "false" or if unset (default), Markdown linting is disabled.
  - If set to "true", it lints every _md_ file inside the project's directory.

>   - If set to "solution", it lints every _md_ file inside the `$(SolutionDir)`. This is useful to catch files not covered by an individual project, such as the root Readme. However, it can cause duplicate warnings for files in another project that uses `Lombiq.NodeJs.Extensions`. We suggest setting this value in the solution's "entry" project such your Web project (e.g. [_Lombiq.OSOCE.NuGet.Web.csproj_](https://github.com/Lombiq/Open-Source-Orchard-Core-Extensions/blob/dev/NuGetTest/src/Lombiq.OSOCE.NuGet.Web/Lombiq.OSOCE.NuGet.Web.csproj)). If you are not doing anything else there, also include the properties `<ExecDotnetPostcleanCommand>false</ExecDotnetPostcleanCommand>` and `<ExecDotnetPrebuildCommand>false</ExecDotnetPrebuildCommand>` to avoid running the JS/SCSS/Assets pipelines.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - If set to "solution", it lints every _md_ file inside the `$(SolutionDir)`. This is useful to catch files not covered by an individual project, such as the root Readme. However, it can cause duplicate warnings for files in another project that uses `Lombiq.NodeJs.Extensions`. We suggest setting this value in the solution's "entry" project such as your Web project (e.g. [_Lombiq.OSOCE.NuGet.Web.csproj_](https://github.com/Lombiq/Open-Source-Orchard-Core-Extensions/blob/dev/NuGetTest/src/Lombiq.OSOCE.NuGet.Web/Lombiq.OSOCE.NuGet.Web.csproj)). If you are not doing anything else there, also include the properties `<ExecDotnetPostcleanCommand>false</ExecDotnetPostcleanCommand>` and `<ExecDotnetPrebuildCommand>false</ExecDotnetPrebuildCommand>` to avoid running the JS/SCSS/Assets pipelines.
```

> ℹ If you include the repository as submodule and want Solution-wide Markdown analysis it's better to add the [Lombiq.NodeJs.Extensions.SolutionMarkdownAnalysis](../../Lombiq.NodeJs.Extensions.SolutionMarkdownAnalysis/Readme.md) project to your solution.

Alternatively, you can use the following `npm` scripts [as described for JavaScript](JavaScript.md#how-to-get-started):

- `lint:markdown`: Checks for _md_ files recursively in the working directory.
- `lint:markdown:args`: Checks for _md_ files recursively in the location provided by the `--directory=path` argument
- `lint:markdown:solution`: Checks for _md_ files recursively in the first parent directory that contains an _sln_ file.

## Auto-fixing

> Many markdownlint [warnings](https://github.com/DavidAnson/markdownlint/blob/main/doc/Rules.md) (error codes starting with MD00) can be auto-fixed. The MSBuild warning include “An automatic fix is available with markdownlint-cli.” when this is applicable.

Reviewer 2: Have you thought about integrating that into NE? If yes, what held you back?

Author: I originally wrote this in the company wiki to help out even with projects that don't have NE. Then Zoltán asked me to move it into the docs, so I did. I think making it a script would be too much of a production for something you likely only do once, when you introduce NE to the solution. After that you shouldn't have so many problems to justify using an autofix.

Reviewer 2: That's a good point!

﻿# Scripts for MD files

## Usage

Since Markdown files don't need to be built, linting isn't included in the normal workflow but a separate target can launch it for any project that uses _Lombiq.NodeJs.Extensions_. You can configure its behavior with the following MSBuild property:

- `<MarkdownAnalysis>`:
  - If set to "false" or if unset (default), Markdown linting is disabled.
  - If set to "true", it lints every _md_ file inside the project's directory.

>   - If set to "solution", it lints every _md_ file inside the `$(SolutionDir)`. This is useful to catch files not covered by an individual project, such as the root Readme. However, it can cause duplicate warnings for files in another project that uses `Lombiq.NodeJs.Extensions`. We suggest setting this value in the solution's "entry" project such your Web project (e.g. [Lombiq.OSOCE.NuGet.Web.csproj](https://github.com/Lombiq/Open-Source-Orchard-Core-Extensions/blob/dev/NuGetTest/src/Lombiq.OSOCE.NuGet.Web/Lombiq.OSOCE.NuGet.Web.csproj)). If you are not doing anything else there, also include the properties `<ExecDotnetPostcleanCommand>false</ExecDotnetPostcleanCommand>` and `<ExecDotnetPrebuildCommand>false</ExecDotnetPrebuildCommand>` to avoid running the JS/SCSS/Assets pipelines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - If set to "solution", it lints every _md_ file inside the `$(SolutionDir)`. This is useful to catch files not covered by an individual project, such as the root Readme. However, it can cause duplicate warnings for files in another project that uses `Lombiq.NodeJs.Extensions`. We suggest setting this value in the solution's "entry" project such your Web project (e.g. [_Lombiq.OSOCE.NuGet.Web.csproj_](https://github.com/Lombiq/Open-Source-Orchard-Core-Extensions/blob/dev/NuGetTest/src/Lombiq.OSOCE.NuGet.Web/Lombiq.OSOCE.NuGet.Web.csproj)). If you are not doing anything else there, also include the properties `<ExecDotnetPostcleanCommand>false</ExecDotnetPostcleanCommand>` and `<ExecDotnetPrebuildCommand>false</ExecDotnetPrebuildCommand>` to avoid running the JS/SCSS/Assets pipelines.
```

> > ℹ If you include the repository as submodule and want Solution-wide Markdown analysis it's better to add the [Lombiq.NodeJs.Extensions.SolutionMarkdownAnalysis](../../Lombiq.NodeJs.Extensions.SolutionMarkdownAnalysis/Readme.md) project to your solution.

Reviewer: Neat formatting!

Author: Thanks, I used this in HAST too.

> > ℹ If you include the repository as submodule and want Solution-wide Markdown analysis it's better to add the [Lombiq.NodeJs.Extensions.SolutionMarkdownAnalysis](../../Lombiq.NodeJs.Extensions.SolutionMarkdownAnalysis/Readme.md) project to your solution.

Reviewer: Do we actually need to NuGet-publish `SolutionMarkdownAnalysis`?

Author: No. I even removed it from the _Lombiq.NodeJs.Extensions.sln_.

Reviewer: Because it has all the NuGet bells and whistles in its folder and csproj, and the NuGet shield in the Readme.

Author: Ok, removed those too.

Alternatively, you can use the following `npm` scripts [as described for JavaScript](JavaScript.md#how-to-get-started):

- `lint:markdown`: Checks for _md_ files recursively in the working directory.
- `lint:markdown:args`: Checks for _md_ files recursively in the location provided by the `--directory=path` argument
- `lint:markdown:solution`: Checks for _md_ files recursively in the first parent directory that contains an _sln_ file.

## Auto-fixing

Many markdownlint [warnings](https://github.com/DavidAnson/markdownlint/blob/main/doc/Rules.md) (error codes starting with MD00) can be auto-fixed. The MSBuild warning include “An automatic fix is available with markdownlint-cli.” when this is applicable.

> - Install [markdownlint-cli](https://github.com/igorshubovych/markdownlint-cli), e.g. by typing `pnpm install -g markdownlint-cli`
> - Locate or download our [markdownlint configuration file](../config/lombiq.markdownlint.json).
> - Execute `markdownlint --fix --config path\to\lombiq.markdownlint.json path\to\file.md`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Install [markdownlint-cli](https://github.com/igorshubovych/markdownlint-cli), e.g. by typing `pnpm install -g markdownlint-cli`
2. Locate or download our [markdownlint configuration file](../config/lombiq.markdownlint.json).
3. Execute `markdownlint --fix --config path\to\lombiq.markdownlint.json path\to\file.md`
```
